Clarify that every thread has its own default context in contextvars (#99246)
python/cpython: Doc/library/contextvars.rst

function and the :class:`~contextvars.Context` class should be used to
manage the current context in asynchronous frameworks.

.. note::
   By default, every thread will have a different default
   :class:`~contextvars.Context`. This means that a
   :class:`~contextvars.ContextVar` can generally be used as a drop-in

>    replacement for a :func:`threading.local` variable.

Reviewer: I think that saying that `ContextVar` can be used as a drop-in for `threading.local` might bring people to blindly replace `threading.local` with `ContextVar`, but care is needed. Some things (mostly C stuff) are just bound to OS threads, so `threading.local` is what you want for them, while with `ContextVar` there can be many contexts per OS thread (e.g. asyncio tasks).

Author: Unfortunately I don't think I follow your argument, Can you suggest a better wording for this?

Reviewer: I think the first sentence provides good information, although a couple notes on the wording:

1. "By default" -- is there a way for a thread to not have a unique context? Maybe with the C API? PEP-567 says "Context.run() raises a RuntimeError when called on the same context object from more than one OS thread" so it shouldn't be possible to "share" a `Context`. If so, I'd remove "By default".

2. "default Context" -- maybe instead say "root Context" or "initial Context" or "top-level Context"?

Regarding the second sentence, what is the motivation for having a note about it? Is the idea to encourage people to switch to `ContextVar` when it's the better choice?

Author: > Regarding the second sentence, what is the motivation for having a note about it?

The motivation is to clarify the following sentence:

>Context managers that have state should use Context Variables
 instead of :func:`threading.local()` to prevent their state from
 bleeding to other code unexpectedly, when used in concurrent code.

Reviewer: My suggestion is to replacie the note+paragraph with the following:

```rst
Every thread has a unique current :class:`~contextvars.Context`.
If you're currently using :func:`threading.local()` to store contextual information,
such as context manager state or per-request state in web frameworks,
consider using Context Variables instead. This will prevent the state from
bleeding to other contexts unexpectedly, when used in concurrent code
that is running in the same thread.
```

Author: I don't agree. I want to highlight more that every thread has is own context.

Thanks for the feedback I will take it into account into the final version

Reviewer 2: There is a later line "`Context` objects hold strong references to context variables which prevents context variables from being properly garbage collected." Is this also true for `threading.local()`? And if not, is that potentially a problem for using "drop-in replacement"?

Author: That's also true for thread locals, they also hold strong references to what they contain. Is just that they are less tricky to leak because they don't have the layers separating the key and the container.

Going from thread local to context variable (as long as you place them at top level as the doc say) will not create ownership problems in general

Author: In any case I will use a different wording as I just want to focus on the per thread default guarantee here, not on the equivalence between this and thread locals.

   To get a copy of the current context use the
   :func:`~contextvars.copy_context` function.

   Every thread will have a different top-level :class:`~contextvars.Context`

>    object. This means that a :class:`ContextVar` object behave in a similar
>    fashion to :func:`threading.local()` when values are assigned in differeent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   object. This means that a :class:`ContextVar` object behaves in a similar
   fashion to :func:`threading.local()` when values are assigned in different
```
